---
title: America's Jazz President
date: 2016-07-25T16:59:30-04:00
layout: sketch
excerpt: "America's Jazz President faces his greatest test."
header:
  teaser: "featured-images/saxophone.jpg"
  overlay_image: featured-images/saxophone.jpg
  overlay_filter: rgba(13, 71, 161, 0.85)
  caption: "Photo credit: [**Pixabay**](https://pixabay.com/en/musician-saxophone-performance-704501/)"
---

**INT. OVAL OFFICE (OR EQUIVALENT PRESIDENTIAL OFFICE)**

> PRESIDENT SKIP ELLERTON, a jazz musician who finds himself as leader of the free world, is anxiously pacing back and forth, nervous about an imminent meeting with a foreign dignitary, DR. JASPER KABONG (nationality and accent up to the actor's discretion). PRES. ELLERTON is a combination of Presidential and 'jazzy': he's wearing a formal, three-piece suit and tie; but he also has a ponytail, single earring, tinted/translucent glasses, goatee, kufi cap (like Neil Peart might wear). Counselling him are SECRETARY EMMA MICKLETHWAITE and economist RUDY SCHMIDT.

### PRES. ELLERTON

*(in medias res)*

...I'm not cut out for this, man, I'm just not cut out for this. Come on, Emma, man, why don't you sit in for me? Politics ain't got no swing!

### EMMA

Mr. President, your imminent meeting with Dr. Kabong is going to be the backbone of our foreign trade policy for the foreseeable future. Now, Sir, I understand that certain aspects of the Presidency don't come naturally to you. Why, for the last several decades you were America's premier jazz saxophonist. You had no aspirations towards political power whatsoever, much less to winning the Presidency. And, of course, we all remember the shocking and unexpected turn of events that led to your election—but now is neither the time nor the place for that amusing story. But, Sir, you are now the President. You have certain responsibilities which I cannot allow you to neglect: so, Mr. President, I'm afraid you're just going to have to buckle down and master these figures. Do you understand?

*(turning to her colleague)*

Rudy?

### RUDY

*(gesturing to a slideshow projected on the wall; clicking a clicker)*

Right, thanks, Emma. As I was saying, Mr. President, this column represents total revenue generated by tariffs in the last quarter measured against the same metric from the same quarter in the previous fiscal year...

### PRES. ELLERTON

*(crestfallen; to himself)*

Aw, man.

### RUDY

*(continuing uninterrupted)*

Now, taken in isolation as a KPI, this may seem discouraging. However, when measured against inflation, and factoring in projections for the coming quarter, what we observe is...

### PRES. ELLERTON

*(lightening the mood; proud of himself)*

Boy! These charts are more complicated than the chords to Night in Tunisia after Bird got through with them!

> PRES. ELLERTON looks around for appreciation or a laugh, but EMMA and RUDY stare at him disappointed and frustrated.

### EMMA

Sir, we absolutely need you to focus.

### RUDY

Everything hinges on your fluency with these numbers, Mr. President.

### PRES. ELLERTON

Hey, I'm doing my best, man. I really am. But I'm the wrong cat for this gig.

### EMMA

*(consoling)*

Sir...

### PRES. ELLERTON

No, it's true and you know it. I never wanted to be President. I would've been perfectly happy continuing to do session work as America's preeminent bebop saxophonist. But then Bill Clinton appeared on Arsenio Hall's show with his saxophone and ever since, the American people have been voting for their favourite sax player instead of the best person for the job. What should I have done? Was I too hep? I'm not fit to be Commander-in-Chief, daddy-o! Do you remember what happened with my Naval appointments? I put Cannonball Adderley in charge of the US Navy! I figured he'd probably know how cannons work. Well, he didn't, did he? His horn fell in the ocean while he was stationed off the coast of Japan and he still won't talk to me. I suck.

### EMMA

Don't beat yourself up, Sir. We know you're doing your best.

### RUDY

Affirmative, Mr. President, but we really must get back to these tables.

### PRES. ELLERTON

*(desperate)*

Say, I've got an idea, and I just need you to hear me out...

### EMMA

Mr. President, we've been through this a million times, you can't...

### PRES. ELLERTON

*(interrupting)*

What if I present our proposal in the form of a saxophone solo?

*(excitedly making his way behind his desk, as if convincing them is a foregone conclusion)*

I've got my sax right here,

*(he pulls it out)*

and I've been working on a really groovy little number, and...

> A knock on the door. JASPER KABONG enters, looking like a typical dignitary: nice suit, glasses (conservative frames), middle-aged or older, black and slicked-back hair.

### JASPER

*(extending his hand, and shaking the President's while speaking)*

Mr. President. It is an honour to meet you. Although, I must admit, in my country we are deeply suspicious of artists. In fact, we have a little saying: "Art is the enemy of order and decency; it must be suppressed and destroyed." But clearly things are different here in America. I respect this difference. After all, we are not here to debate jazz music! We are here to strike a trade deal that will bring much prosperity to our two nations!

*(releasing his handshake)*

So, Mr. President, what is your proposal? By what percentage of GDP per annum will this arrangement enrich my country over the course of your first term, calculated in aggregate, as well as by quarter, noting, if you please, the rate of growth?

> PRES. ELLERTON looks nervously over DR. KABONG'S shoulder at EMMA and RUDY. They are both frantically gesturing numbers at him. PRES. ELLERTON looks at them, looks at his sax, looks at them, looks at his sax.

### PRES. ELLERTON

Well, that's a great question, Jasper, and, uh...

> He starts playing a frantic bop solo on his sax, gesticulating and rocking energetically—he's in his element! Meanwhile, DR. KABONG puts his hands up to his ears in pain.

### JASPER

*(rocking back and forth in torment; grimacing)*

Ah! Criminal! Treason! What's this I hear if not the sound of pure disorder? You assault me with a skronk of unending pain! Lucifer take you! You will live to regret this, President Skip Ellerton. Mark my words! My people never forget such disrespect!

> JASPER runs out, clutching his ears.

### PRES. ELLERTON

*(proud)*

Ah, man. That cat has no taste! I was straight grooving!

### EMMA

Mr. President, this is no laughing matter.

### RUDY

Yes, sir. My calculations tell me you should prepare for the worst.

### VOICEOVER

The President's advisors were correct. Dr. Kabong prevailed upon his President to declare war upon the United States of America. Complete global annihilation was all but certain. As the ships of war descended upon the Land of Liberty, one man rose as her saviour. Bound by duty to the President who believed in him when no one else would, Cannonball Adderly emerged as a master of naval leadership and wartime strategy.  He rained a hail of cannonballs upon the enemy forces and secured victory for the United States, thus ensuring Skip Ellerton's legacy as the greatest President in American history.